---
title: Empires 2.13.4 released
author: Thexa4
---

Empires 2.13.4 "Equilibrium"
April 4, 2017

# Features:
* Flags will now be (slowly) captured if the full team is present on that location, even if the amount of players is lower than the configured minimum.
* Added turret turning speed parameter to vehicle scripts.
* Rotation in second seat no longer coupled to turret rotation.
* View rotation is persisted when entering / exiting vehicles.
* Artillery now has slight horizontal movement ability.
* Slightly prettier tank deaths.
* Added HUD element to warn players of CV attacks.
* Research is now paused when the last radar is destroyed.
* Added tutorial bot spawner entity (emp_tutorial_bot_spawner).
* Added commander target entity (emp_commander_auto_target).
* Enabled detail shapes
* Detail models now hide when under a building.
* Detail draw distance is now controlled by the server instead of the client.

# Bugfixes:
* Fixed chat swallowing character after a %.
* Flags no longer continue capping after a game ends.
* Vehicles are now lag compensated, allowing you to hit people with hitscan weapons while driving.
* Removed tank cannon kick to fix aiming with double cannons.

# Non-code changes:
* Included new cliff textures.
* Renamed stock maps to indicate play type to help players vote for maps: (affected: district402, urbanchaos, eastborough, glycencity, escort)
** Conquest maps (like district, vehicletraining) begin with ''con_''
** Commander maps stay ''emp_''
** Assault maps (like escort) begin with ''as_''
** Fun / intermission maps (like minigames) begin with ''fun_''
* Better statistics tracking

# Script changes:
* Amount of units required for getting a point by recycling 150-> 100.
* Lowering wages.
* Deflective & Capacitve cost 20 -> 18.
* Rename Seismic Grenade into Seismic Resonator.
* More explosive force for arty cannons.
* Slightly decreased machine gun damage to compensate for lag compensation.

[Discuss this on the forums.](https://forums.empiresmod.com/)
