---
title: Custom balancing scripts!
author: Tama
---
The Empiresmod developers are publishing more and more code that is public, and available for you to use. It just occurred to me today, that we hadn't actually featured any of it before, nor explained how you could use this code! For instance, you can use our public balancing scripts repository to compare the script versions of different servers, or find out about [Spike's zany version](https://git.empiresmod.com/Spike/empires_script) with all new weapons and completely different balancing - I can certainly testify that it was a lot of fun to be completely ignorant of the balancing, or meta-game, and play Empiresmod like a child again. I'm sure opinions will differ on that; even within the dev-team we're not on one page about balancing. I don't mean to say we're constantly bickering, but hey, we like to keep each other sharp, that's for sure!

There are, by the way, several custom script sets, too many to go into detail about all; Mr.X just recently came out with his server with some slightly tweaked balance - or bugfixes, as some could be called. I'm certainly not here to tell you which is best! In fact, I've been living under a rock in a cave for quite a while, positively aching for a computer with Empiresmod running on it, and the time to actually play. {sad-faced programmer is sad.} Point is, you will have to join up and find out for yourself what has changed. It's certainly an exciting time to be involved in Empiresmod; even the *developers* aren't sure where the balancing will take us next!

Getting back on topic - all public Empiresmod code is listed [here](https://git.empiresmod.com/public); that includes the [git repository for the balancing scripts](https://git.empiresmod.com/empires_public/empires_script), where you can read in much greater detail than in any changelogs we publish what exact changes were made when. It also dates back many years, so, with a bit of [knowledge of git](https://duckduckgo.com/?q=git+for+dummies+%28through+gitextensions%29&t=ffab&ia=qa) and a good GUI (*ahum*, clearly only [GitExtensionsMod](https://gitextensions.github.io/) qualifies - at least the devs can agree on that), you will be able to compare what we play today to what passed for balance in 2012. Note, though, that fundamental gameplay changes, such as the removal of the research that gave APC's their spawnpoint, have greatly affected balance; some changes you will discover in the balancing scripts were implemented to counter these fundamental gameplay changes. Not all the changes we make are random, just most of them! :P

I mentioned before that servers can publish their own script versions, but this bears repeating; You can change whatever you dislike about Empiresmod, test it out with friends, and generally run your server any way you like! This is the kind of freedom Empiresmod is founded on; gamers should be free to experiment with their game, and be given the tools to do so by the official developers. Of course, that does put us in a difficult position as developers when accepting bug reports and complaints; we give server owners enough rope to hang themselves and their players, but players don't necessary know who strung them up. So, you know, ramble-ramble, servers may not be what they seem, yada-yada illuminati.

I do sincerely hope that everyone reading this can take a little joke and appreciate the punchline.

What? Oh, there wasn't a punchline? I'm terribly sorry.
