---
title: Google "SMTP" - I dare you
author: Tama
---
So, I've travelled from The Netherlands to New Zealand a few times. I don't do it often, but when I do, Google misplaces all emails that arrive for the next 12 hours, because of a locale bug; basically, Google's email server decides that the email "cannot have arrived yet", because the initial arrival date (in New Zealand time) into my inbox hasn't actually passed in The Netherlands yet, which is where I am now. Frustrating! Why can't Google employ good programmers?

Alternatively - and I know this is going to be shock horror to some of you - perhaps hire somebody to actually read bugreports and respond to those who submitted them to get some more information? I've submitted this bug report through all the usual Gmail channels, but never received any sort of response, despite my repeated urging to them to contact me if they needed any more information about the bug. I mean, come on Google, my bugreports even come with screenshots! Meet me halfway, maybe? Anyway, sorry for (ab)using empiresmod.com, but I just hope that someone can help me out here - I've told everyone but my neighbour's dog about the problem, but nobody seems to know what to do with bugreports.

It would be pretty horrifying if they thought this "wasn't a problem" - right? Just picture it happening to you the next time you fly from east to west over a timezone of X hours; for the next few weeks (that's a lowerbound guesstimate) every single email will pop up in your inbox, then disappear for X hours before you can actually read and respond to the email. (assuming you're using either the webclient or the "modern" SMTP (*cough* *cough* at least Pop3 didn't stand for "Google-fuckup-prone").

The first time I reported this bug was in 2015, when, having just arrived back from New Zealand, Google Inbox went into beta and I got an invite from some coworkers. I erroneously assumed that this was a bug with their new Inbox system, and went back to using the "good old, old gmail" button, which has gotten progressively difficult to find in their interface changes. But just because I said in my bug report that this was "probably due to Google Inbox" doesn't mean "tester must be right - can't reproduce following his exact steps, so let's assume emails don't disappear for any reason".

The problem did disappear, but it's pretty insidious, this bug; you notice it only if you're very attentive - the first time you fetch an email, it is there and readable. The second time, it's gone. So if you're using a web client, that email might only ever be visible for 5 seconds. Using an email client like Thunderbird makes it much easier to spot when it occurs, because you can re-fetch your emails on your own time.

Don't get me wrong, as a programmer I can certainly appreciate the Google engineers' capacity for laziness. To reproduce this problem, you actually have to travel from New Zealand to The Netherlands and log into google from those different timezones. First use it for months at a time in one time-zone, then move west towards Greenwich mean time from New Zealand. While Google's stored locale setting laggs to catch up; hey presto, disappearing emails.

And eventually this problem fixes itself when Google catches on to your new locale but what the hell mate; why can't you just pop-up the question: "Looks like you moved from New Zealand to The Netherlands (yes, we know). So, shall I chuck some emails in this deep dark hole for you while we wait for sun-up down-under?"

The other way around, (travelling from The Netherlands to New Zealand, or generally West to East) the bug is not a problem; it's just that all of Google Inbox's "remind me in one day" notifications are off by 12 hours, until your locale is updated in Google's system. No worries there. But it's truly mind-boggling that I, right now, have several emails that I will not be able to read for another 12 hours. Yarg. I guess I'll just have to wait for New Zealand time to catch up to the present before I can respond about that box-bike.
